_Disclaimer: This README was written by ChatGPT._

# MUR - Making Users Responsible

Welcome to the MUR Chrome extension repository! This project aims to help users take responsibility for their actions on the internet by providing search help guides and hints. 

## Getting Started

If you're new to the project, there are a few things you need to know before making any edits. 

### Project Structure

The repository has three files that you'll be working with:

1. **manifest.json** - This file contains metadata about the extension, such as the name, description, and version. It also specifies the files that the extension needs to run, such as CSS and JS files.

2. **mur.css** - This file contains the styles for the Mur icon and popup elements.

3. **mur.js** - This file contains the JavaScript code that creates and positions the Mur elements on the page, and toggles the display of the popup.

If the user's search query includes the phrase 'data void', the circular border of the Mur icon will turn red. This is done by adding the class `mur-has-data-void` to the Mur icon wrapper in the `createMurPopup` function of `mur.js`. The `mur.css` file uses this class to apply a red border to the circular icon wrapper.

### Making Edits

If you're only editing text and links, you'll only need to modify the HTML content in the `createMurPopup` function in `mur.js`. You can replace the `Lorem ipsum` text with your own content and update the link to your desired URL.

If you want to change the colors, you can modify the color values in the `mur.css` file. Be sure to test your changes thoroughly to ensure that they look good and are easily visible.

### Adding Data Voids

MUR can detect certain search queries that return few or no results, leaving a "void" in the available data for the user. These are known as data voids. To help users find more complete and accurate information, MUR provides guidance on how to improve their search terms when a data void is detected.

If you want to contribute to MUR by adding a new data void, follow these steps:

1. Open the `mur.js` file in a text editor.
2. Locate the `dataVoids` array near the beginning of the file. This array contains the current data voids recognized by MUR.
3. Add a new string to the array with the text of the data void you want to add. For example, if you want to add a data void for the search term "missing data", you would add `'missing data'` to the array.
4. Save the `mur.js` file.

That's it! The next time someone uses MUR to search for one of the data voids you added, they will see a popup with information on how to improve their search terms to find more complete and accurate information.

Note that the concept of data voids and the importance of responsible searching have been discussed by researchers such as Golebiewski and boyd (2018, 2019). According to Golebiewski and boyd (2019), "Data voids are a security vulnerability that must be systematically, intentionally, and thoughtfully managed" (para. 1).

#### References

Golebiewski, M., & boyd, d. (2018). Data voids: Where missing data can easily be exploited. Data & Society. Retrieved from https://datasociety.net/library/data-voids-where-missing-data-can-easily-be-exploited/

Golebiewski, M., & boyd, d. (2019). Data voids: Where missing data can easily be exploited. Data & Society. Retrieved from https://datasociety.net/library/data-voids/


### Updating the Mur Icon

If you would like to update the Mur icon, you can use a website like [base64.guru](https://base64.guru/converter/encode/image) to convert your image file to a base64 string. Follow these steps:

1. Choose an image file that you want to use as the new Mur icon. Ensure that the image is in a format supported by web browsers (such as PNG, JPG, or GIF) and that it is not too large (32x32 pixels is a good size).
2. Go to [base64.guru](https://base64.guru/converter/encode/image) and upload your image file.
3. Copy the base64 string that is generated by the website.
4. Open the `mur.js` file in a text editor.
5. Find the `murIcon` element near the beginning of the file. It should look like this:

```
const murIcon = document.createElement('img');
murIcon.src = 'data:image/png;base64,IGNORE';
murIcon.id = 'mur-icon';
```

6. Replace `IGNORE` with the base64 string that you copied from the website.
7. Save the `mur.js` file.
8. Reload the MUR extension in your browser to see the new Mur icon.


### Testing Your Changes

To test your changes, you'll need to load the extension into your Chrome browser. Here's how to do it:

1. Open the Extension Management page by navigating to `chrome://extensions`.
   - Alternatively, you can open this page by clicking on the Chrome menu, hovering over More Tools then selecting Extensions.
2. Enable Developer Mode by clicking the toggle switch next to Developer mode.
3. Click the "Load unpacked" button and select the extension directory.
   - Make sure to select the top-level directory that contains the `manifest.json` file.
4. If everything is set up correctly, you should see the MUR icon in your browser toolbar. Click on it to test the popup and ensure that your changes have been applied.

## Conclusion

That's it! You now have a basic understanding of the MUR Chrome extension and how to make edits to it. If you have any questions or issues, feel free to open an issue in the repository or contact one of the maintainers. Happy coding!

## Addendum: List of potential improvements

1. Indicate in the popups that this is a speculative provocation, and not a working intervention:
    - This can help prevent users from relying too heavily on MUR and encourage responsible searching practices.
    - One possible way to do this is to include a disclaimer in the popups, such as "Note: This is a speculative provocation and not a working intervention. Please use responsible searching practices."

2. Add a note in the search suggestions dropdown and in the address bar dropdown:
    - This can help remind users to use responsible searching practices, even when MUR is not active.
    - One possible way to do this is to add a message to the search suggestions dropdown and/or the address bar dropdown that reads something like, "Remember to use responsible searching practices! Check out MUR for more guidance."

3. Update the data voids array from an external list:
    - Currently, the data voids are hard-coded into the `mur.js` file. This can make it difficult to update the list or add new data voids.
    - One possible way to improve this is to use an external list or database of data voids that can be easily updated and accessed by MUR.

4. Improve the text for popups:
    - The current text in the popups is somewhat generic and may not be as helpful as it could be.
    - One possible way to improve this is to provide more specific and actionable guidance to help users improve their search terms and find more complete and accurate information.

5. Improve the icon:
    - The current icon is relatively simple and may not be as visually appealing as it could be.
    - One possible way to improve this is to redesign the icon to be more visually striking and better communicate the purpose of the extension.
